
## Linux Assignment 1

1. Go to this link for Linux terminal: [JS Linux](https://bellard.org/jslinux/)
2. Use the `whoami` command to display the current user.
3. Use the `pwd` command to display the present working directory.
4. Use the `date` command to display the current date and time.
5. Go to the /home directory and use the `pwd` command to verify the current directory.
6. Create a new directory called "linux_gyan" in your home directory (/home).
7. Go to the "linux_gyan" directory.
8. Create two new directories, "gyan1" and "gyan2," in the "linux_gyan" directory, like /home/linux_gyan/gyan1 and /home/linux_gyan/gyan2.
9. Use the `ls` command to list the contents of the "linux_gyan" directory.
10. Create a new file called "file1.txt" in the "linux_gyan" directory.
11. Edit "file1.txt" using the `nano` command and add the string "Hello World!".
12. Use the `cp` command to create copies of "file1.txt" named "file2.txt" and "file3.txt".
13. Use the `cat` command to view the contents of "file1.txt", "file2.txt", and "file3.txt".
14. Move "file2.txt" to the "gyan1" directory.
15. Move "file3.txt" to the "gyan2" directory.
16. List the contents of "gyan1" and "gyan2" using the `ls` command.
17. Remove "file1.txt", "gyan1", and "gyan2" using appropriate commands.

check for multiple file copies at a time using cp command. cp file1.txt file2.txt file3.txt did not work ****


## Linux Assignment 2

1. Check the number of CPUs.
To check the numbner of CPUs we use 'lscpu' command. 
It stands for "list CPU" and is used to gather information about the Central Processing Unit (CPU) of your system.

The lscpu command displays various details about your CPU architecture, including:

Number of CPUs and threads
CPU cores and sockets
CPU family, model, and vendor
L1, L2, and L3 cache sizes
CPU instruction sets supported

2. Check the RAM in the system.
free-h

3. Check the disk size.
df -h

4. Check Operating System details.
cat /etc/os-release

5. Check the IP address of the system.
hostname -i

6. Check the uptime of the system.
uptime

7. Check which processes are currently running.
top - task manager

8. Terminate any one process.
get the PID for the process from 'top' command using task manager and then run kill -9 PID command.

9. Check the size of the /var directory.
du -sh /var is the command. For any other folder other than var the path can be modified accordingly.

10. Check the date and time of the system.
date
